Before we think about how to regulate
FinTech, I think it's quite important for
us to come to an understanding of what, if
many things, we think FinTech actually is.
In the years following the financial
crisis, entrepreneurs saw the need for
new types of financial businesses
including the creation of low cost ways
to invest, household savings, platforms
that make it easy to borrow money
from one another rather than with
the use of a commercial bank.
Faster payment methods, mediums to crowd
fund projects and entrepreneurial startups
and low cost ways to transfer
money abroad or across consumers.
And so what of the following to you feels
like a financial technology innovation?
An app that allows you
to deposit checks via
your smartphone to a traditional financial
institution like Bank of America?
A new peer to peer lending platform,
something like Lending Club,
where you can borrow funds theoretically
from your next-door neighbor, in reality,
from large institutional investors who
purchase these loans from Lending Club?
A website that makes it easier to do
international remittance transfers?
A entirely new medium of
exchange of value, like Bitcoin?
The use of what are now thought
of as traditional platforms,
but historically very new
platforms like Facebook,
to facilitate the process
of consumer payments.
So in reality,
it's quite interesting to try and
place some of these financial
innovations on a bit of a spectrum from
totally new ideas and new kinds of
businesses, things like Bitcoin,
to traditional businesses, things like
Bank of America, getting involved in and
taking advantage of new technologies
that exist in the world.
I think it's quite useful to think about
financial technologies as involving
sort of business practices and
financial institutions.
And the relative newness
kind of varies depending
on the particular products
that we're talking about.
So if we take the example of Bank of
America creating a mobile platform.
Well, Bank of America is at this point
a traditional financial institution
that's getting involved in
a traditional banking practice,
the deposit of checks, but
doing so with a new technology.
You can contrast that to someone like
Facebook getting involved in payments.
Again Facebook is
a traditional business but
not a traditional
financial business at all.
And payments are a traditional
sort of activity that
financial institutions engage in but
of course not in this way.
To take a third example, if we think of
someone like Lending Club, they're getting
involved in a traditional financial
practice, which is consumer lending.
But they're doing so
with an entirely new platform.
And so the reason why it's important
to bifurcate the layers of
newness in financial technology
is because the kind of regulatory
framework we will want to adopt will be
a byproduct of the existing regulation
that already exists in that space.
So, when you think about traditional
financial institutions doing traditional
financial activities,
albeit with new technologies,
the sort of new regulatory framework
that you have to conceive up for
that setting is much less extreme than
in the case of something like bitcoin,
which involves an entirely new
as a class in accents entirely
new business practices that regulators
really having conceived of in the past.
And so they kind of, it's almost
a misnomer where this whole mergal
is almost a misnomer as we think about
financial technology regulation.
Because the kind of regulation that
we're going to need to conceive
of is inherently going
to be a byproduct of
the particular practice that we're
considering a new financial technology.
Even the name FinTech is quite
useful as a sort of guidepost for
the kind of technology
that we're thinking about.
Of course it just involves the contraction
of financial and technology.
At first, FinTech referred to
technology that tended to improve
back-end systems at traditional
financial institutions.
Things like these mobile apps that
large banks had managed to develop
that provide tremendous convenience and
real amenities to the consumers
that bank with these institutions.
But with the emergence of entirely new
players in businesses like lending,
like investing,
like crowdfunding, payments and
much more, the definition of FinTech has
necessarily been significantly broadened.
And again it's this breadth that is going
to make regulation quite challenging.
Because while we tend to talk about and
tend to think about FinTech as one thing,
one group, they include these
well-regulated sort of well-established
firms who are used to doing
financial service provision,
like the JP Morgans of the world
that are doing totally new things like
launching their own cryptocurrency.
FinTech also involves startups
doing existing finance differently.
Things like Venmo in the payment space,
or Prosper and
Lending Club in the lending space, or robo
advisors in the investment advising space.
And they involve startups
disrupting the way we think about
the financial system altogether.
Things like these decentralized
blockchain based marketplaces.